## COSC 494 - Discussion Questions
### September 3, 2013

#### 1. What is the purpose of the file system? What are its most important resources, structures and functions?
1. Present a logical or abstract view of files and directories to the users by
   hiding the physical details of secondary storage devices and the I/O
   operations for communicating with teh devices.
2. Facilitate efficient use of the underlying storage devices.
3. Support the sharing of files among different users and applications. This
   includes providing protection mechanisms to ensure that information is
   exchanged in a controlled and secure manner.

Operations on files: Create/Delete, Open/Close, Read/Write, Seek/Rewind

#### 2. Should the file system be integrated into the OS kernel?
Simple answer: yes for performance reasons. Overhead of microkernel if outside
the kernel space.

#### 3. Why is file transfer done via specialized data movement protocols (eg FTP) rather than directly between operating systems?
Simple answer: potential incompatibility with other file systems. The interface
between different operating systems could be different.

#### Source Routing
- Put the routing path into the datagram, as part of the header, instead of
  allowing the router to route the path.
- Pushing routing to endpoint
- Whether or not you want the topology level to be visible
- Some kind of routing protocol has to exist to route things
- The bad: Issue of
  - limited - serving communication, resource sharing
  - generic
  - simple 
- Can't comminicate without shared resource - at least an interface
- Some kind of agreement between two interfaces
- Could be useful in a University network
- Not ideal for the wide Internet

#### File Systems
1. Disk sharing
  * **NONE OF THIS REQUIRES AN OPERATING SYSTEM**
  * multiple users
  * safety
  * security
  * partitions
  * multiplexing
  * virtualization
  * uniform - data sharing (communication)
  * we need interoperability
  * sanity
  * protection domain
  * control within the resource
  * files give us more flexibility
  * unit of data sharing
  * unit of control
2. Abstraction of storage
  * name
  * extent
3. File System
  * data structures on disk
  * shared partitions/volumes
  * more virtualized view of files
  * permissions - create
  * Performance
  * inode - similar to btree
  * vnode - fixed size blocks
  * pointer blocks vs data blocks
  * tree allocation strategy - oriented to keeping small files small
  
  

#### General Notes
1. IBM 360 used virtualization to virualize all disk resources
  * Each user had their own virtual space
  * Not uniform, not good for data sharing
2. Question Authority - 
  * Says who?
3. Getting to Unit of Data Sharing really required multi-tasking.
  * This is what UNIX innovated in non-mainframe systems.
  * Isolation of user and kernel space.
  * Before, users could go past the operating system and used system calls.
4. Oracle built its on filesystem using real btrees
  * Oracle felt the Unix filesystem was not efficient enough

